So, how do you get into that short list?
That's that's the real question that
marketing has today because only 5% are
going to raise their hands at any given
point. Um, but you have to build that
runway um for the future um short lists
to be
[Music]
made. What is mind share and is it the
secret to B2B marketing success? Welcome
back to a fresh episode of BreakingB2B.
I'm your host Sam Dunning, founder over
at
breakingb2b.com. And joining me today,
I've got Kelly Chen. Kelly is the CMO
over at Goldcast. Kelly, welcome to the
show. How you doing? Good. Thanks so
much for having me on the show. You're
very welcome. Excited to talk all things
mind share. I feel it's uh quite a big
and timely topic right now. I see a lot
of folks, especially on kind of socials
from the B2B, from the SAS perspective,
talking a heck of a lot more about
brand, about mind share, all that kind
of stuff. And I feel like the focus is
shifting a lot to this, at least in in
my circles, in my feed. So, we're going
to be diving into things like what does
mind share actually mean from a B2B
perspective, why it's important, how it
stacks up to more common compared to
more common B2B strategies, be it
inbound marketing, outbound, demand
generation and such, and how B2B
marketers, B2B founders, revenue leaders
tuning in can practically take steps to
start building that mind
share. So, with that, Kelly, what what
would be your summary? What what are
your thoughts? what does mind share
really mean today? Yeah. Um I completely
agree with you that there is definitely
a conversation going on right now on
socials on the shift between like the
demand versus mind share. And in terms
of mind share, the the true definition
of mind share is about occupying space
in your prospect's mind before they're
actively looking to buy. Um so it's
really, you know, building that
awareness, that per perception and
emotional connection. um you know there
is that 955 rule where 95% of your
target audience is not in market to buy
only 5% is um so when you have those
intent signals which I think we've you
know overindexed on intent signals are
great but that's great for that 5% but
what about that 95% when their budget is
not currently up for grabs their mind
share is so you know I think that
ultimately traditional B2B marketing
focuses really heavily on capturing that
buyer intent signals and then jumping
straight into that conversation. So,
I've worked in organizations where
marketing is really just supporting
sales. They're just driving leads. So,
sales team has leads to follow up on,
but mind share marketing really
recognizes that the buying decision
actually starts much much earlier than
the sales conversation. Many people are
doing their own research before even
having a sales conversation. So, when
those intent signals fire, you've
really, you know, it's it's too late.
And so you really have to start your
investment in mind share uh which is way
before the intent signals.
Got it.
You tired of competitors ranking above
you on Google, stealing traffic, leads,
and mind share from dream clients every
time they're searching for your services
or offers on Google. of breaking B2B. We
fix that with our unusual approach to
SEO, content marketing, and websites. We
craft B2B SEO strategies and websites
for revenue, not vanity. Head over to
breaking.com to check our results,
pricing, or to book a call with
me. And do you feel that building mind
share? So, I mean, we've we've had kind
of demand generation folks on on the
show over the last few years and and
we've dived into stuff around the 955
rule like you say there that I think
even a push kind of 3 to 5% of your
target total dress audience being in
market at one time is is pretty good.
And I suppose also depending on the size
of that TAM that could be very small or
it could be very large depending on how
many ideal prospects fit that. So, I
guess it makes sense to make your your
brand top of mind for those that massive
chunk of the market that's like you say
could potentially be a customer one day,
but when that is, we don't know. Um, so
how does that like I guess compare to
kind of traditional demand generation or
kind of putting content in front of
folks?
Yeah. So, you know, demand generation
focuses on, you know, the ultimate goal
of generating leads and opportunities.
It's really about um, you know,
identifying known people. Um, so then
you can go and do your followup, your,
you know, aggressive outbounding,
inbounding messaging. Um, but mind share
really is about um, getting your content
everywhere all at once. So, it's not
just capturing their information. That's
not the ultimate goal. The ultimate goal
is to move them along the buyer journey.
So then as they're moving across the
buyer journey, they're also building
trust uh with your brand. Um the the
ultimate goal, at least at Goldcast when
we're looking to build mind share, is to
be that number one resource, that go-to
place for our target audience. So when
they have a painoint, if they're
struggling, they have a question, they
come to our brand for that answer. Um so
when time comes to buy, naturally,
they're also going to come to us for
that resource.
So, how do you folks consider the buying
journey? Is it split into the typical
stages of awareness or do you look at a
bit differently? So, you know, I it's
funny because, you know, I've had so
many conversations with different
marketing leaders and um most recently
I've I think back to a conversation I
had with um a marketing leader at
Atlassian and her name is Ashley FA and
she explained it to me as not so much a
funnel anymore but more like a
playground because um the reality is
that buying groups are getting much
larger. I think Forester has recently
released their recent numbers which is
you know enterprise organizations. It's
up to 22 people large and nine out of
those 22 people don't actually uh work
at those organizations. They're you know
outside consultants or influencers on
the outside. Um so your account-based
marketing that really linear way of
doing B2B marketing that historically
has been the blueprint no longer works.
And the way that she explains it is it's
like a playground because, you know, one
person can be playing on the swings and
one person can be going down the slide.
Um, it doesn't really matter what part
of their journey is as long as they're
engaging with your brand and it's
influencing the overall account. Um,
that's what really makes the difference.
That's that I like that. I like that
saying like it's it's not a buying
journey. It's more of a playground. And
I think I think marketers have kind of
always known that it just feels easier
to put it into certain stages,
especially if you're trying to justify
spend for like paid media or new
campaigns or new programs you're trying
to build out. Yeah. And especially
because so many of these like marketing
tactics are mapped to the funnel. Like
for example, when you're doing um you
know follow-up, I I don't know if if
it's just me, but I've heard that a lot
of people are getting bribed uh in their
inboxes to take demos. Um I can't tell
you how many $100 gift cards I've been
uh you know teased with if I, you know,
give give, you know, 30 40 minutes of my
time for a demo. Ultimately, that
doesn't work. That that bribery, that
tactic doesn't work if I'm not in
market. um if I take the demo, it'll be
only because I want the gift card at the
end of it, not because I have any
intention to buy. Um so, it's really
really making sure that once you do
execute those outbound tactics, um you
have enough mind share for it to make
sense for it to actually pay back.
Otherwise, you're really just paying out
the gift cards, uh with no opportunities
being generated.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's an
interesting one. I need to do a a
dedicated episode actually specifically
on on gifting cuz I it's funny cuz I see
I used to think that giving gift cards
was like terrible and an awful idea. But
I've got a friend I think it's Sylvio
that runs a business called ad
conversion. And I'm pretty sure he's had
really solid use cases. So I need to get
either him or someone else back on the
podcast to talk specifically about that
topic and see who's seeing success from
it. is like it feels like 50% of
marketers are like it's bribery and then
50% are like it's actually working to
drive closed one deals. Yep. I think
there's a time and place for it. It's
really that fine line between when does
it be a turn from bribery into actual
value uh because you're not just giving
away that demo uh in exchange but your
your demo is actually valuable that's
actually worth uh someone's time. So,
it's really when when a buyer is in a
stage that's ready to buy and they know
who you are and they have the intention
of taking that demo and turning that
demo into something, that's when that
gift really makes a lot of sense. M
let's let's go back to you said the
ultimate goal is becoming the number one
resource and I think you mentioned when
kind of your target prospects have the
problem you solve or trying to get the
job that you help get done or trying to
fix an issue that you you're going to
fix. What dive into that a bit deeper?
Um like what what does that look like?
Yeah. Um so I'll give an example. Um
when I first started at Goldcast about
three and a half years ago, um one thing
I really wanted to make our brand uh be
around is community. Um that was a gap
that I saw in the event marketing world.
That was back when Goldcast was really
known as uh an event tech uh company.
And um we built a community because that
was the gap. there was no safe place for
event and field marketers to go to to
get advice, to get vendor selection
ideas, um to get venue ideas. Um and so
we created that Slack community and um I
made a pretty hard and strict rule and
said no sales allowed in the community.
Um sales our sales team's allowed to
join the community. They can watch the
conversation, but they are absolutely
not allowed to prospect. There is no
selling in the community. It is a
completely protected space. Um, and I
got a lot of push back and skepticism on
that approach because you know what's
the point of creating something
investing in some some marketing if it
doesn't turn into opportunities. Well,
it does turn into opportunities. It's
just not forcing it to happen. Um, and
so as we were building that community,
uh, we hosted events, we had, you know,
uh, fireside chats with different event
marketing leaders. We created content.
Uh we created a compensation guide every
year to allow marketers to know if
they're being paid below the line. Um
and over time we've built this
reputation of being that number one
resource. Um and so what ended up
happening is that our inbound funnel
really came from our community. A lot of
people went to the community to ask for
um you know vendor ideas for virtual
event platforms and many people
suggested Goldcast and there came our
demo inbound demo funnel. Um, so from
creating that community, that safe space
where we're building mind share across
that particular community of our ICP,
uh, we were able to, you know, create an
engine that really helped fuel our
inbound funnel. I like it. How difficult
was that to build out? Um, you know,
difficult in a sense that, you know, I
had never done it before, but I think
that was actually the beauty of it. you
don't want to have a cookie cutter
community uh where you're just ripping
and replacing and copying another
community out there. Um it required us
to really pay attention, listen to some
of the people in the community about
their pain points and design a space
over time that really suited the pain
points. So while it definitely took a
lot of investment um and o oversight, it
ultimately became worth it. Even today,
uh we're seeing it organically grow. Um,
you know, we're about 3 4 thousand
people large now globally and we're
seeing everybody um, you know, do local
meetups without even, you know, Goldcast
funding it. Um, and so it's it's really
beautiful thing to see when you u, you
know, start a fire and it kind of grows
into something really beautiful. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I I get that. I get that. I
totally agree that I think I think
having no sales sales reps in it was a
smart idea. Then I think like you say
understanding that there's not going to
be immediate pipeline but if you have
the right audience in there and there's
something that's genuinely worthwhile
for them with the conversation that's
going on whether like you say that's the
moderator as well as the the folks in
there kind of sharing useful tips,
advice, asking questions, all that kind
of stuff. I can see how that can be
valuable long term. What what was the
timeline? Like you said, there's did you
say 4,000 5,000 people there? So, yeah,
we started it about 3 years ago. Um
Okay. And so, um after 3 years, we're
about 3,000 4,000 um and still growing.
Um you know, a lot of our how we grow is
you know, through word of mouth, through
our customers. We run a lot of our own
events. Um and you know, just having
having our ICP and our community members
love us. Um there's a lot of word of
mouth going on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's
great. And was like to build it out, did
that involve a lot of initially, I
suppose in the early days, was it a lot
of outreach or was a lot of kind of paid
spend behind it to to make folks aware
of it? Like how what did that look like?
Yeah, we were rather scrappy. Uh there
was really no paid spend behind it. Uh
we created a landing page with a form
for people to sign up. We have a free
Slack account, so it was very very low
overhead. Um and we have a you know
social community marketing manager who
uh would just do a lot of one-to-one
outreach to our customers who were in
RCP. Um and then um also to our
prospects to you know get them to join.
Um we would u host as I mentioned our
own events. Um we had a series called
event marketers live where every week we
had a show that was really really
targeted to our event marketers and
every episode we would you know plug our
community say join our community. uh
we're talking about all this kind of
stuff. There's different channels for
different different topics and you know
really really saw that as a as an avenue
for growing.
Was that very difficult to get buy in
from the rest of the leadership team?
Like was anyone skeptical? You know um I
think that that is actually going to be
the biggest hurdle for anyone looking to
um you know really execute mind share
marketing because it requires
investment. Uh luckily at Goldcast um I
work with founders that understand
marketing. We market to marketers and so
it's it is really critical for our
leadership and executive team to
understand how this all works. And so it
didn't take much for me to get buy in
for that. Um it it you know naturally
made a lot of sense when we had a lot of
um a lot of our customers um you know
agreeing on this approach. Um but I I do
think that that is one of the biggest
challenges is how do you prove you know
the value of mind share because that is
a lagging indicator. Um your demand
efforts are for short-term value you
actually see the the lead volume coming
in and and you know you work with the
sales team to generate that pipeline. Um
but when you're talking about mind share
um the metrics are a little bit less
defined when it comes to you know ROI.
Um but I think it is critical to have
that top- down buyin on understanding
why mind share is so valuable.
Yeah, I c I can see that I think it is
difficult. I can see it being difficult.
I'm I'm also in a lucky situation where
my ICP are marketing leaders. So, a lot
of the time the topics we talk about
kind of ring true, but I can imagine if
you're in perhaps more of an an industry
that's maybe a bit more traditional, a
bit more old school, uh maybe a bit more
in person or things like that or
something that's historically been only
paid media driven or events driven. It
might be a lot more difficult to get
that buyin from leadership where these
concepts are, I guess, something they're
not necessarily used to. like their
version of community might be like in
person dinners or meeting at events or
that kind of stuff and it's like
something that's almost like how does
that work?
Yeah. Um I think it's um it's you know
really to get that buy in. It's really I
I don't want to say dumbing it down but
get speaking the same language. Um I
think marketers understand because we
all are part of that buying journey and
it's our job to understand the buying
journey. Um, but if you work with a CEO
or CFO that doesn't understand the
buying journey, have them understand it.
The buying journey has changed from, you
know, 20, 30 years ago, um, people are
not picking up trade publication
magazines, looking at a print ad, and
saying, "Oh, I need this product." Um,
today buyers are using over 10 channels
throughout their entire journey. There's
300 different touch points that are
needed to influence all 22 stakeholder
uh, influencers in a deal. And you know,
vendor short lists have also shrunk.
Meanwhile, the vendor options have
grown. So, I can only I only have time
to get demos from three vendors. But I
know that if I want a chatbot, there's
probably hundreds out there. But the
ones that have won my mind space, that's
Drift, that's Intercom, and that's
qualified. Um, because those are the
brands I know and trust. And so once, so
how do you get into that short list?
That's that's the real question that
marketing has today because only 5% are
going to raise their hands at any given
point. Um but you have to build that
runway um for the future um short lists
to be made. Um and I think that for a
lot of teams um they struggle with
figuring out how to actually build that
buying journey and fill it with content
because of resource constraints.
Um, how I approach it is really really
thinking through like a video first
strategy because I think that video is
the most powerful tool for winning mind
share in the B2B world. Um, it's the
medium that people prefer to engage
with. People prefer watching a video
over reading text. Um, you know, a lot
of people say that video plays a
critical role across the entire journey.
um you know from awareness all the way
to
consideration. And so um if you have
video um you can really really uh build
that trust because once you put your
subject matter expert in front of a
camera, they're speaking to your
audience, addressing their pain points,
they your audience understands that you
understand them. Um video is a really
really really critical piece to getting
through to that.
Would you say that it's more about
reducing risk as especially as you get
into higher ticket B2B solution selling
whether that's software or service
doesn't really matter when teams are
bringing making their short list of two
three vendors four five vendors however
many they pick are they do you think
it's about yes occup occupying mind
space but also like if I'm going to
present whether I'm I don't know let's
say I'm the marketing manager or the
head of marketing that that's then going
to present options to my VP my CMO
whatever am I thinking yeah I know I've
seen these three brands a lot of these
four brands a lot I've seen a lot of
their stuff on LinkedIn or I've been
served a lot of their ads over time I've
consumed a lot of their stuff on socials
I've been part of their community and I
also think that if we invest in their
offer not a lot can go wrong um like is
is that a big part of it like risk
reduction or is it also kind of they
stand out as the clear choice. Like what
do you think are kind of those triggers
I suppose? Yeah, I think it, you know, I
think every buyer has their their
reasons for going with whichever vendor
that they go with. Um I think a a lot of
it is scientific where it's you checking
off all the
boxes. The reality is a lot of vendors
out there check all the same boxes. So,
it's not the really, you know, about
your messaging or making sure that your
product has value cuz that's already a
given. Um, if you're in the race, like
you should already check all those
boxes, but it's how do you make sure
that uh between these five competitors,
you're the you you make the list because
I I can't tell you how many vendor um
you know, evaluations I've gone through
and all vendors pretty much look the
same. But what's gonna make me, you
know, convert with one out of the other?
And that's, you know, brand. That's
relationships. But relationships, I
would argue, is part of brand. My
relationship with my AE, my relationship
with my CSM, that's all about how I how
I view a brand, if I trust the brand or
not. So, I think it all comes into play.
And I think everybody has their
different reasons for going with
different vendors. Um, ultimately in I
think big ticket B2B, it comes down to,
you know, relationships and and trust.
um you know I will go with one vendor
over another if I have prior experience
with them that you know I know that
they're tried and true. I don't want to
get fired over bringing on a bad vendor
cuz you know you know that happens. Um
so there is a risk in in any buyer uh
when they make a decision. Um so it's
like I I think like you said it's
derisking that. Um and a lot of the mind
share building is building trust.
H
so building mind share is it something
that every B2B company should be doing
or is there a right stage of your
company that you should be at in order
to make it a sound investment of cash or
resource.
Um, reason I
ask is I suppose I'm trying to put it in
into perspective for B2 marketers or
founders that are tuning in like is it
something we should be doing from the
off or does it make more sense to try
and capture that 5% of prospects that
are in market now with things like ads,
SEO, etc. And then when we've got kind
of some more ramp space, whether that is
a round of funding or whether that is
we've hit a certain revenue milestone,
then the mind share process we're
talking about makes more sense. Like
what are your thoughts there?
Um, that's a great question. Um, if I
were to think about, you know, any
organization that should invest in Mind
Share, um, I would think about, you
know, how cluttered is your space? when
you talk to your prospective buyers um
you know how you know when they search
on Google you know webinar alternatives
webinar tool alternatives how many you
know search results come up how
cluttered is your space where you do
need to stand out chances are most
spaces are pretty stacked um there's a
lot of competition out there if you have
product market fit which is a good thing
you want competition uh but when there's
competition the fight is now for mind
share so I think it's really
understanding your market uh whether or
not you have you know key players that
you're going against that you um you
know can win through brand if there is
not a ton of product differentiation u
that's how I would you know consider
whether or not mind share is an
appropriate time for you to be investing
in I think there's always like there
should always be an investment in mind
share it's just the level of investment
um whether it's a bigger chunk or a
smaller chunk
and would you say there's a time where
it does not make sense
[Music]
Um I'm my hot take here is no because I
think that if you're in the B2B um
selling world um you know B2B
traditionally is a longer deal cycle
requires multiple stakeholders and the
nature of that um you're going to have
to be able to use content to influence
that journey uh because you know that
955 rule is still true across the board.
Yeah. Yeah, I think it's like if you've
got a sales team, it's almost like their
dream. Like I can imagine being a seller
at a company like let's say for instance
Gong that have built up one of the
biggest names in cool recording and the
the category that they've built up which
well it's way more than cool recordings
now and that side of things but I can
imagine if you if you're a seller in a
company like that compared to maybe a
brand new
brand just on sales discovery calls
alone if the leads have come inbound you
know that they're probably comparing two
or three options. And if someone's heard
of your brand like everywhere for years
and years and years, it's just such an
unfair advantage. Um, not that Gong are
a sponsor of the show or anything like
that. It was just the first one that
came into my head that I've probably
been served a lot of ads over the years.
But it's almost like if you can build
that foundation, it just gives your
sales team an unfair advantage really
going into those demo calls or those
discovery calls.
Yep. Absolutely. It's really about
making your um your demand genen your
inbound and outbound efforts more
effective down the funnel. So it's an
invest it's a they play play together.
So if if a company's kind of thinking
this there are a lot of competitors in
our marketplace and this is something
that we've been neglecting like we're
we're tired of folks going with other
vendors because they're doing a lot more
of this or maybe they've just the
competitors have just been around a
longer time so just not done it by
choice but they've just become the
preferred brand because they've been
around longer um or they've got a higher
ad spend or something else like what are
some of the first steps that you should
take if you want to start building mind
share in in your category? Yeah. Um I
would say the first step is really um
getting to know your community, your
audience. Really try understand what
their pain points are outside of your
product. Every ICP, every persona has a
pain point. Um, and it's really really
figuring out what that is. So then you
can address it head on because once you
address that painoint head on and you
can provide value to solve that
painoint, you start building that
rapport and trust. So I think the first
step is really understanding who what
your who your audience is, what they
care about. Um, and then creating
content to help fill that void. Um so
any problem painoint that you have uh
that your audience has create a series
uh you know like a fireside chat series
every two weeks uh where you're
interviewing leaders um thought
leadership content and creating thought
leadership content over video um just
recording it over video doing a live
interview something like this um and
recording that content um that will be
able to fuel your entire content system
starting with mind share because it
really starts with thought leadership
Um, and so once you have a system in
place where you're consistently creating
live video content, because that's truly
what I believe works the best, uh, you
could do live video, recorded video, so
like interviews like this that are
recorded, uh, once you have that video
asset every week, make it a system. Uh,
you know, take that one hour video and
you can turn it into up to 20 pieces of
content across different channels,
really amplifying it. So turning your
long form video into short clips, turn
it into blog posts, turn it into social
media content, turn it into email
newsletters. Um that is how you can
amplify and really really build mind
share from a single message. Um and
being consistent, that's why I said, you
know, start a show or a series because
that consistency is going to help build
that conversation, that longevity with
your audience. Uh people will come back
for more and that's what you want that
you want to be that go-to resource. Um,
and this can be difficult. Before AI,
you have to do all this manually. U, you
know, to have to download this
recording. I would have to get it
transcribed. I would have to get a
writer to help me write a blog. Um, but
with AI now, you can automate a lot of
that process and make it really, really
seamless. Um, you can turn one hour of
video content into your entire months of
content um, within, you know, a couple
of hours. Um, and so really really
trying to get more mileage out of every
piece of video content because that's
when you put, you know, camera in front
of a subject matter expert. Um, that's
money. Like that is that is so gold and
you if you amplify it to the right
audience, that's how you build mind
share and and build that runway for your
brand.
Yeah. Yeah. Big big fan of building
content engines. And what what's your
point of view in terms of making sure
that the content you're putting out
isn't
just generic stuff cuz I think I'm a bit
biased because a lot of my clients are
in B2B tech and SAS. So I think everyone
if they've not started a podcast yet or
some kind of series or webinar is in the
process of doing it. Whereas if we look
at other industries it's probably not as
popular. Maybe more folks are moving
into it. So, I suppose one, how do you
get the angle to make sure that yours is
differentiated to your audience just
thinking, "Oh, bloody hell, another
podcast. I've seen 10 of these already."
Yeah. I I think, you know, um a lot of
people are afraid of staying niche um
and like to go broad because they don't
want to miss out on any topics. But I
think it's important to stay niche. And
I I I'm going to highlight something I
said earlier where um it's really
important to, you know, interview your
community, your audience, and figure out
what their pain point is. They're gonna
they're going to have more than one pain
point. They're going to have five to 10
pain points, but it's really really
important for you to hone in on just
maybe focusing on one or two of them
because you can't solve all of their
problems. You have to pick and choose
which ones are worth your time and
investment. Um, and once you pick and
choose those few things that you really
really want to own, the spaces where you
really really want to own and clearing
that painoint, um, I like to bring on
guests um to and that can help with
those pain points because those guests
can provide real life examples on video
that can't be replicated with, you know,
generic AI content. Um, these are actual
case examples that are actually helpful.
People like to hear, you know, data
points, proof points, frameworks. Uh
that's really how you can guarantee
value is, you know, really starting on
the the content backbone, like what what
is it that actually your audience cares
about and building from there.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sounds smart. Sounds
smart.
Um, want to go back
to your choice to build a community
because it sounds like that was one of
the real big driving forces of the
company's growth. Is that fair to say? I
would say that's definitely one of them.
Yes.
What What made you decide that was the
right thing or your team decide that
that was the right thing to do? Because
there's so many things you can do in B2B
marketing. like you said, you could have
started a podcast back then or a
specific series or something else like
why why that and why then?
Um, we decided to start a community back
then because, you know, we interviewed
up to 20 different customers that were
in our ICP that we have built a lot of
trust and relationship with and in and
being kind of like a product advisor.
Um, and across the board something
consistent that we heard was that there
is no safe space. um for us to go to. Um
and so we decided to create that safe
space because of just you know they they
were asking for it. Um and so in terms
of creating that safe space, yes, it
could have turned into a podcast. Uh we
started with a Slack community because
you know ultimately I wanted um to see
actual humans h actual names and and
people signing up. So that was selfishly
a lead generation um thing for me. Um
but as we we decided to grow to because
like you like you said it doesn't have
to just be uh a slack community uh we
did start like a show I mentioned every
two weeks we have event marketers live
that kind of went along with the
community um and so we did grow in
different channels where the community
can engage um but we started with a
slack community because um that's what
we heard was uh something that was
missing in that world.
Good stuff. And I think that that is
brilliant in terms of the the customer
research. Like they've
literally sometimes B2B marketing gets
gets made way more complex than it is.
And I think I in fact I made a dedicated
episode a solo episode on breaking B2B
recently where I did kind of a bit of a
hot take on kind of what's working in
B2B marketing this year. And a lot of it
was just fundamental stuff like getting
a regular feedback loop from either your
recently won customers or target
prospects kind of understand like not
just surface level pain points but
expensive problems and what they hate
about your industry, what frustrates
them the most, like what's the most
arduous point of working with a solution
or software or service like yours. like
going into those really kind of deep
questions because if you can get under
the skin of that kind of stuff, it's
it's just so useful to fuel your
messaging or in your case actually gave
you the idea to to build out this
community that's then been like a huge
proponent of the growth to the business.
So I think if if ever there is a point
for folks tuning in that think kind of
customer research is a waste of time or
resource, it kind of gives you the
answer that it's it's never a waste of
time really if you're if you're if
you're thinking about that.
Absolutely.
So we've covered quite a lot of ground.
Um what I'd like to say I mean we've
kind of touched on this a bit already
but is this is mind share like if you're
thinking about a budget perspective
should mind should mind share and if
you're trying to get exact buy in like
with the rest of leadership do you kind
of assign it a set number or a set
amount of resource from your team i.e.
we're going to do this much on Google
ads, this much on LinkedIn ads, this
much on SEO, this much on website, and
mind share is going to get this chunk.
Is that how it works, or should you be
thinking about it differently when
making a a pitch for leadership? Yeah,
that's a that's a great question. Um, I
think a lot of the times when you're,
you know, I'm guilty of this, when
you're going into um, you know, annual
planning and you have a budget that you
have to fill out, it's really um, you
know, brand budget versus demand budget.
And there's different tactics that go
under each bucket. Um, mindshare
actually doesn't just exclude demand.
Mind share is part of demand. It's, you
know, it blends in from brand all the
way through to demand. And mindshare is
about that consistent customer journey
through content. Um, and so that
includes that demand budget, too. So, I
wouldn't actually have a separate budget
for mind share. I would have a content
strategy that covers mindshare. So when
you're thinking about your customer
journey and the content that you have to
produce and create for the year, um how
does that kind of execute? So it's it's
part it's part of an overall strategy
and then it's not just a siloed on how
much money you should be spending um but
it's also about you know the content
that you're producing and making it make
sense to the actual customer journey
that you're trying to influence.
Okay. Okay. And what would you say in
terms of for folks that are tuning in
and thinking this all sounds great, but
I know one of the first questions I'm
going to be asked is how long is it
going to take until we actually see some
pipeline and some deals off the back of
this tricky one to answer I'm sure. But
from your experience, feel free to use
the community as an example or any maybe
clients of Goldcast like what what are
they seeing in terms of kind of when
they actually start a program to when it
actually drives results and how are they
how are they going about kind of
tracking that? Yeah, I think that you
know you to to see how your mind share
is growing. There are certain metrics
that are indicators of that. And so if
you're building mind share through
content on social, you know, looking at
your social engagement metrics, the lift
there, um I think ultimately the goal of
mind share is to growing your reach and
growing your audience and the frequency
that they're engaging with your content.
So if you're very very specific and
specific channels and executing mind
share, social is a great channel for
that. Another way that I like to look at
uh over time if you're building mind
share is measuring your brand search
volume. um you know if you are investing
in content and investing in your mind
share um over time you should see a lift
in people searching for your brand. Um I
think that when if you're looking to tie
it to pipeline um that's going to be
tough because if if you're uh working
with an organization that is going to
have to make every single dollar bring
back pipeline. Um that's really not how
brand budgets work. And so you really
need to start with buying on this on the
leadership level first is to really
understand that this is a leap of faith.
This understand how the buying journey
works and understand that this is the
way that we have to invest in our
marketing. Um it's not just a you know a
oneinone kind of science. Um and so
that's that's really challenging when
organizations are in a place where they
have to fight for a mind share budget or
a mind share strategy because there is
no um you know executive buyin on that
type of thinking. Um so for that I would
I would my advice would be start with um
influencing your stakeholders by
explaining to them how marketing works,
how the buying journey has changed and
how the way that we sell also needs to
change. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Nice.
It's it's almost like going back to the
example you gave earlier. So it's like
if you're going to get a chat software,
what options you evaluating? and they
they'll probably tell you two or three
straight away if they're in tech like we
are. Um, but you could obviously use an
example to your own industry and it's
like how did why why those three and
then kind of getting them to use the
words out of their own mouth of why they
picked those three then they'll be like
oh so that that's what mind share is
that's brand marketing that's why I'm
thinking like so
it's sometimes like folks need to
convince theelves and there's like no no
better way if you can kind of get it to
get them to explain kind of how they how
they pick choices and all that good
stuff. So, um, yeah, I like the like the
way you've tied that back in. To me,
feel free to disagree, but for me, it
feels like real small scrappy startups
that are
bootstrapped. I think if they want to do
this, I think, like you say, kind of
building communities, building podcasts,
and and stuff that's more sweat equity
makes more sense. And I think as you
jump up to funded companies, mid-market
companies that have got the cash, it
feels like you can hit this from a lot
more angles, kind of ramping more paid
into it, more resources into it, but
probably not the smartest idea if you're
kind of low on cash or resource. Is that
fair to say? Yeah. I I mean, I think
that there's there's cheap ways to do
mind share, there's expensive ways to do
mind share. Um it's really really about
um you know, un ultimately understanding
your audience and and delivering value
through content. Um, I think as you're
further down the funnel, you're
delivering value through product, you
know, a lot of more lowerfunnel, mid
like mid to lowerfunnel content, but
when you're at the top of the funnel
where mind share really matters the
most. Um, it's really really making the
case for your category, uh, really
allowing your audience to understand
that, hey, we actually understand you.
We're building a product just for you.
Um, so follow along and and and and
learn from us. Um, I think it's that's
where you can really deh like humanize a
brand um on sort of the buyer level. Um,
and that content opportunity is
extremely valuable.
I appreciate it, Kelly. Enjoyed the the
conversation. I appreciate you coming
on. Please do share more about how folks
can connect with you more about Goldcast
and anywhere you'd like to to plug.
Yeah. Um, so for those who aren't
familiar with Goldcast, Goldcast is an
AI powered video content platform built
specifically for B2B marketers. Uh, we
help companies uh create engaging live
uh video through webinars, events, uh,
pre-recorded video through podcasts and
interviews, and then we use AI to help
transform that content into snackable
multi- channelannel assets that really
drive engagement across the entire
buying journey, helping you build that
mind share. Um, if you'd like to connect
with me, you can find me on LinkedIn.
Cheers, Kelly. Appreciate the chat.
Awesome. Thank you. No worries. And as
always, if you enjoyed today's episode,
why not join thousands of B2B legends
enjoying the breaking B2B newsletter.
Head over to breaking B2B.com, hit the
newsletter. You'll get weird, unusual
B2B marketing and SAS marketing
strategies, experiments, as well as
interviews with marketing leaders just
like Kelly.
And with that, I appreciate you tuning
in. We shall catch you on the next one.
Cheers.
[Music]